Add Azure AD B2C migration guide (#1598)
FusionAuth/fusionauth-site: site/docs/v1/tech/migration-guide/azureadb2c.adoc

Next, you'll need to set up an Azure Function to receive the login requests from FusionAuth and return the user's profile. The Function will pass the credentials on to Azure AD B2C and, when the authentication succeeds, retrieve the user's profile from Microsoft Graph, then return a FusionAuth friendly JSON object.

==== Configuring the Azure Function

The Azure Function receives the login request from FusionAuth, attempts to log the user in via ROPC, and then returns a FusionAuth user object on success. The Function will call the https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/user-get?view=graph-rest-1.0&tabs=http[Users] API after successful authentication to get additional user attributes, which will then be transformed into a FusionAuth compatible format.

When setting this up, modify the example Function code provided in this guide. Here's the entire sample Azure Function, tested with the node 14 runtime:

[source,javascript]
.Azure AD B2C Connector Function code
----

> include::https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ritza-co/fusion-ropc-azure-function/main/RopcProxyFunction/index.js[]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
include::https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-ropc-azure-function/main/RopcProxyFunction/index.js[]
```

----

> You will need to modify the `transformToFusionUserObject` function to match the properties of the users that you want to import. This converts the JSON returned from Azure AD B2C into the JSON format FusionAuth requires. You can see samples of both below. To modify this procedure, clone or fork the repo for the full Function project https://github.com/ritza-co/fusion-ropc-azure-function[here], then make the changes in your local copy of the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will need to modify the `transformToFusionUserObject` function to match the properties of the users that you want to import. This converts the JSON returned from Azure AD B2C into the JSON format FusionAuth requires. You can see samples of both below. To modify this procedure, clone or fork the https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-ropc-azure-function[repo for the full Function project], then make the changes in your local copy of the project.
```

          "provisionedPlans":
          []
      }
  ]
}
----

The `transformToFusionUserObject` will transform the above into a FusionAuth compatible format, as displayed below:

[source,json]
.Sample Successful Login JSON
----
{
  "user": {
    "id": "702eebc9-ef84-489f-b7d3-6f67388ffdd3",
    "active": true,
    "firstName": "Erlich",
    "fullName": "Erlich Bachman",
    "lastName": "Bachman",
    "username": "702eebc9-ef84-489f-b7d3-6f67388ffdd3@fusiontut.onmicrosoft.com",
    "email": "erlich.bachman@piedpiper.com",
    "verified": true,
    "insertInstant": 1661188751,
    "data": {
      "azure": {
        "identities": [
          {
            "signInType": "emailAddress",
            "issuer": "fusiontut.onmicrosoft.com",
            "issuerAssignedId": "erlich.bachman@piedpiper.com"
          },
          {
            "signInType": "userPrincipalName",
            "issuer": "fusiontut.onmicrosoft.com",
            "issuerAssignedId": "702eebc9-ef84-489f-b7d3-6f67388ffdd3@fusiontut.onmicrosoft.com"
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
----

Once you have the custom function logic updated, it is time to deploy the Azure Function.

==== Deploying the Azure Function

> Azure Functions can be coded within the Azure portal directly, or coded on your local machine and deployed as a package using https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-develop-vs-code?tabs=csharp[Visual Studio Code, with Azure Extensions]. As the function has dependent modules, you will need to follow these instructions. Clone the https://github.com/ritza-co/fusion-ropc-azure-function[function project], and follow the instructions in the link to deploy to your Azure Function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Azure Functions can be coded within the Azure portal directly, or coded on your local machine and deployed as a package using https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-develop-vs-code?tabs=csharp[Visual Studio Code, with Azure Extensions]. As the function has dependent modules, you will need to follow these instructions. Clone the https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-ropc-azure-function[function GitHub repo], and follow the instructions in the link to deploy to your Azure Function.
```

After deploying the Function, set the following Function environment variables, also known as https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-how-to-use-azure-function-app-settings?tabs=portal[Application Settings], to those that you recorded when setting up the ROPC app:

[source,bash]
.Azure Connector Function environment variables to set
----
TENANT_NAME:          // The name of your AD B2C Tenant,
ROPC_FLOW_NAME:       // The name of the ROPC flow setup above
ROPC_CLIENT_ID:       // The Client ID of the ROPC App Registration
GRAPH_CLIENT_ID:      // The Microsoft Graph API App Registration clientId, a.k.a Application id
GRAPH_CLIENT_SECRET:  // The Microsoft Graph API App Registration client secret
----

==== Testing The Deployed API

> Once you have deployed the Function, copy the Function URL with the access code from the Azure Portal. You can do this by clicking the "Get Function URL" button on the top bar of the Function overview page. The URL should look something like this: `https://fusionAuth.azurewebsites.net/api/RopcProxy?code=s0ndU863xdbXsFO4dLZAJQXLzyTU789iaUJ43uLAtIkXm_AzFuFWP1zg==`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have deployed the Function, copy the Function URL with the access code from the Azure Portal. You can do this by clicking the "Get Function URL" button on the top bar of the Function overview page. The URL should look something like this: `\https://fusionAuth.azurewebsites.net/api/RopcProxy?code=s0ndU863xdbXsFO4dLZAJQXLzyTU789iaUJ43uLAtIkXm_AzFuFWP1zg==`.
```

This keeps the url from being hyperlinked.

=== Log In With a Test User

To test that users will be migrated, log in as a test user via the FusionAuth interface.

When you set up the test application, you recorded the [field]#OAuth IdP login URL#.

image::migration-guide/{migration_source_dir}/find-login-url.png[Finding the login URL.,width=1200]

Copy this URL and open it in a new incognito browser window. (If you don't use an incognito window, the admin user session will interfere with the test.) You should see the login screen:

image::migration-guide/{migration_source_dir}/user-login.png[The login page.,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]

Enter credentials for a Azure AD B2C user account; it can be the same one you used to test the API with curl and log in. The user will be transparently migrated over to FusionAuth.

If the user was not migrated or the login was unsuccessful, you can troubleshoot. In the administrative user interface, enable the [field]#Debug enabled# field in the Connector configuration by navigating to [breadcrumb]#Settings -> Connectors# and editing the Generic Connector you added.

> After enabling enhanced debug messages, try to log in again with the test user. In the administrative user interface, navigate to [field]#System -> Event Log# and look for useful messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After enabling enhanced debug messages, try to log in again with the test user. In the administrative user interface, navigate to [breadcrumb]#System -> Event Log# and look for useful messages.
```

:!extra_permissions_text:

=== Export User Data From Azure AD B2C

You need to export whatever data you can from Azure AD B2C before you can import it to FusionAuth.

[NOTE.note]
====
The Azure AD B2C UI provides for bulk exporting of users. However, at the time of this guide, link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/answers/questions/373771/azure-ad-b2c-user-export-missing-mail.html[user email addresses are not available through the bulk export]. This guide uses the link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory-b2c/microsoft-graph-operations[Graph API] to export user data, which does include email addresses.
====

To export the data via the Graph API, you need to authenticate with the API, and then call the link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/user-list?view=graph-rest-1.0&tabs=http[List method] to return the data.

To authenticate with Azure AD B2C, you first need to register an application with Azure AD B2C, which will give you an app ID and secret. Follow link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory-b2c/microsoft-graph-get-started?tabs=app-reg-ga[this guide] to create an application.

> We've created a node console tool to authenticate with the Graph API and export the users. You can clone or fork it from https://github.com/ritza-co/fusion-azure-add-bulk-export[here], and configure the `.env` file with your Azure AD B2C tenant and app ID and secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've created a node console tool to authenticate with the Graph API and export the users. You can clone or fork it from https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-azure-ad-bulk-export[the GitHub repository]. Then update the `.env` file with your Azure AD B2C tenant and app ID and secret.
```

====

Running the script should produce an output like this:

[source,shell,title=Import script output]
----
$ ruby ./import.rb -f http://localhost:9011 -k '...'
FusionAuth Importer : Azure AD B2C
 > User file: user-data.json
 > Call FusionAuth to import users
 > Import success
Duplicate users 0
Import complete. 2 users imported.
----

==== Enhancing the Script

You may also want to migrate additional data. Currently, the following attributes are migrated:

* `user_id`
* `email`
* `email_verified`
* `username`
* `insertInstant`
* `registrations`, if supplied

The migrated user will have the Azure AD B2C original user identities stored on the `user.data` object. If you have additional user attributes to migrate, review and modify the `map_user` method.

You may also want to assign Roles, or associate users with Groups, by creating the appropriate JSON data structures in the import call. These are documented in the link:/docs/v1/tech/apis/users#import-users[Import User API docs]. This will require modifying the `import.rb` code.

=== Verify the Import

> include::docs/v1/tech/migration-guide/_verify-import.adoc[]

Reviewer: This includ file needs to be modified because "If you have a test user whose password you know, open an incognito window and log in to ensure the hash migration was successful." is not going to work, ever, because we are importing the password hashes as a random string. 

We should get rid of everything after "You can manage the user by clicking on the black button to the right of the Created date in the list to review the details of the imported user’s profile." if this is being used as part of a migration where you have to reset passwords. Or you can remove it, the Cognito guide doesn't have a 'verify import' section for the bulk import: https://fusionauth.io/docs/v1/tech/migration-guide/cognito#import-the-users
